---
title: Parts and Documents
toc: false
type: specs
date: "2019-05-05T00:00:00+01:00"
draft: false
menu:
  vec120:
    identifier: key-concepts/parts-and-documents    
    parent: key-concepts
    weight: 1001001 

# Prev/next pager order (if `docs_section_pager` enabled in `params.toml`)
weight: 1001001
---
{{< svgfigure src="parts-and-documents.png" width="720" height="792" caption="Parts and Documents" numbered="true" >}}
  {{< svglink relref="../classes/partnature.md" x="15.0" y="637.0" width="147.0" height="94.0" >}}
  {{< svglink relref="../classes/aliasidentificationtype.md" x="435.0" y="686.0" width="147.0" height="70.0" >}}
  {{< svglink relref="../classes/documentversion.md" x="330.0" y="231.0" width="204.0" height="151.0" >}}
  {{< svglink relref="../classes/specification.md" x="302.0" y="588.0" width="217.0" height="67.0" >}}
  {{< svglink relref="../classes/aliasidentification.md" x="183.0" y="679.0" width="217.0" height="91.0" >}}
  {{< svglink relref="../classes/sheetorchapter.md" x="297.0" y="441.0" width="217.0" height="103.0" >}}
  {{< svglink relref="../classes/documenttype.md" x="575.0" y="322.0" width="131.0" height="262.0" >}}
  {{< svglink relref="../classes/partversion.md" x="15.0" y="231.0" width="197.0" height="372.0" >}}
  {{< svglink relref="../classes/itemversion.md" x="15.0" y="77.0" width="526.0" height="91.0" >}}
  {{< svglink relref="../classes/extendableelement.md" x="15.0" y="7.0" width="526.0" height="34.0" >}}
{{< / svgfigure >}}
<html>   <head>     </head>   <body>     <p> <span lang="EN-GB"><i>DocumentVersion </i></span><span lang="EN-GB">and <i>PartVersion</i> are representing one of the most fundamental key concepts of the VEC. They are the only classes in the VEC model that are defining version information. In combination with the attributes <i>companyName</i> and <i>partNumber</i> or respectively <i>documentNumber </i>they define an unambiguous context for data exchange. If two instances of the VEC are containing <i>PartVersions</i> or <i>DocumentVersions</i> with equal values of the attributes <i>companyName, partNumber</i> and <i>partVersion</i> or </span><span lang="EN-GB"><i>companyName, documentNumber</i></span><span lang="EN-GB"> and <i>documentVersion, </i>then the two objects can be trusted to be unchanged.</span><span lang="EN-GB"> </span>      </p>      <p> <span lang="EN-GB">Unchanged in this context does not mean binary identical content of the resulting XML-Subtree, but unchanged user data. So if the content of a <i>DocumentVersion </i>is transfered from one VEC-file to another (e.g. for documents describing part master data) the binary representation can be different (e.g. order of the xml elements, technical ids for xml idrefs), but the information represented by the <i>DocumentVersion</i> <u>must not</u> be different (e.g. property values of a <i>Specification</i>). However, the amount of content for instances of the same <i>DocumentVersions </i>might be different. For example when describing components (e.g. Connectors) and their usage in a harness. The component description might contain more (possibly sensitive) information that is unwanted in the harness document. Another reason might be an update of the exporting system, a later export can contain more information without actually changing the original document. These cases are <u>allowed</u> with an unchanged <i>documentNumber, documentVersion, </i>if<i> </i>the intersection of the represented information in both <i>DocumentVersions</i> is consistent.</span>      </p>      <p> <span lang="EN-GB">More specific possibilities to track changes of <i>DocumentVersions</i> are supported by the <i>digitalRepresentationIndex</i>. In some cases the <i>DocumentVersion</i> represents a version of a real document in the domain. The <i>Specifications</i> in the <i>DocumentVersion </i>represent the values defined in the original document. Thus, the <i>DocumentVersion </i>in the is not a managed document by itself, but only a specific digital representation of another document. In other words, it is only a translation of the original document in the language of the VEC.&#160;For example there is a connector described by a drawing /&#160;data sheet, which is available in some arbitrary format (e.g. PDF). This document has a number and a version. When the document is transferred (e.g. with a converter or manual input) into the VEC, the <i>DocumentVersion </i>containing the <i>Specifications</i> might have the same <i>documentNumber &amp;&#160;documentVersion</i> as the original data sheet, since it is not a managed document in the process, but only a different representation of the same information. In such a scenario, it is possible that the content of a <i>DocumentVersion</i> changes without a change or the original document (e.g. there was an input error during the manual transfer of information, there is a new version of the converter&#160;/ exporter and many more). However, the original document has an unmodified <i>DocumentNumber &amp;&#160;DocumentVersion.</i>&#160;To indicate such (potential) changes of the content of a <i>DocumentVersion</i> the <i>DigitalRepresentationIndex </i>was introduced. <i>DocumentVersions </i>that contain a different amount of information (see above)&#160;shall also have different <i>digitalRepresentationIndex </i>values (if defined).</span>      </p>      <p> <span lang="EN-GB">That means, if no <i>DigitalRepresentationIndex</i> is<i> </i>defined, the rules of above apply. If a <i>DigitalRepresentationIndex </i>is defined, the content of the <i>DocumentVersion</i> can only be trusted to be unchanged </span><span lang="EN-GB"><i>companyName, documentNumber, </i></span><i><span lang="EN-GB">documentVersion </span></i><span lang="EN-GB"><u>and</u> <i>digitalRepresentationIndex</i> is the same.</span>      </p>      <p> <span lang="EN-GB">Since both classes can define PDM&#160;information they are derived from the abstract class <i>ItemVersion</i>.</span>      </p>      <p> <span lang="EN-GB">The differentiation between <i>PartVersion </i>and <i>DocumentVersion </i>in the VEC&#160;is necessary, because a part can be described by multiple documents (e.g. a technical data sheet, a drawing and a 3D-model) and one document can describe multiple parts (e.g. a drawing for a contact family that displays multiple terminals and their corresponding seals). As a result a part can be changed (requiring a <u>new</u> <i>PartVersion</i>)&#160;without the need of changing all of its describing <i>DocumentVersions. </i>For example, if a single property of a component changes, a new version of the part itself and its technical data sheet is necessary, but its 3D model might remain unchanged. Another example is, that a document describing multiple parts might be changed (requiring a <u>new</u> <i>DocumentVersion</i>), but in fact only one of its represented parts is changed (requiring a <u>new</u> <i>PartVersion</i>). This relationship between a <i>PartVersion</i> and its describing <i>DocumentVersions</i> is expressed in the model by the association <i>DocumentVersion.referencedPart</i>.</span>      </p>      <p> <span lang="EN-US">The relationship <i>DocumentVersion.relatedDocument</i> can be used to describe general relationships between <i>DocumentVersions</i> (e.g. the relationship between a technical drawing and a given standard the drawing is compliant with). The composition of <i>SheetOrChapter</i> considers the fact that <i>DocumentVersions</i> may be composed of several sheets or chapters.</span>      </p>      <p> The VEC is designed as a format for data exchange. This requires that all content data can be related to a certain unambiguous version context, in order to allow a receiver of the information to easily check if and what has changed since the last data exchange. For this reason, <u>all</u> content data that is not constant is defined with information specific subclasses of the class <i>Specification</i>. A <i>Specification</i> is always contained in a <i>DocumentVersion </i>and thereby related to an unambiguous version context.      </p>  </body> </html>
